NoSQL databases are taking the world by storm.
DynamoDB is one such database,
and it fits well with modern day server-less web applications, micro-services,
gaming, IoT data, and mobile back-ends that need to quickly
scale and handle large amounts of data or millions of requests per second.
Traditional databases like Oracle don't handle this type of load or scale that well.
So how is this possible?
Unlike traditional databases, NoSQL databases are considered to be Schema less.
Schema less simply means,
that the database doesn't contain a fixed or rigid data structure,
and can easily change on the fly,
based on the data being passed in.
This offers great flexibility.
Additionally, data is stored in JSON or JSON like text.
JSON is simple text representing data in key value pairs.
Each row or a record,
in a DynamoDB table is called a document.
DynamoDB is a fully managed service, offered by AWS.
Meaning you don't have to worry about provisioning or managing servers,
or patching or upgrading your databases.
AWS does that for you.
Many of the world's fastest growing businesses,
such as Lyft, Airbnb, Netflix, and Snap,
as well as enterprises such as Samsung,
Toyota, and Capital One,
depend on this scale and performance of
DynamoDB to support their mission critical workloads.